.\" Copyright Amazon.com Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the Creative Commons
 \" Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. To view a copy
 \" of this license, visit
 \" http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/.
 \" SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
.\"
.\" Much of the text in the DESCRIPTION section is taken from
.\" https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-ec2-user-guide/blob/master/doc_source/ec2-instance-metadata.md
.\"
.TH EC2-METADATA 8 "May  4 2020"
.SH NAME
ec2-metadata \- Retrieve instance metadata from within a running EC2 instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ec2-metadata
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ec2-metadata
program is a utility to retrieve EC2 instance metadata from within a
running EC2 instance.

Instance metadata is data about your instance that you can use to
configure or manage the running instance. Instance metadata is divided
into categories, for example, host name, events, and security groups.

You can also use instance metadata to access user data that you
specified when launching your instance. For example, you can specify
parameters for configuring your instance, or include a simple
script. You can build generic AMIs and use user data to modify the
configuration files supplied at launch time. For example, if you run
web servers for various small businesses, they can all use the same
generic AMI and retrieve their content from the Amazon S3 bucket that
you specify in the user data at launch. To add a new customer at any
time, create a bucket for the customer, add their content, and launch
your AMI with the unique bucket name provided to your code in the user
data. If you launch more than one instance at the same time, the user
data is available to all instances in that reservation. Each instance
that is part of the same reservation has a unique ami-launch-index
number, allowing you to write code that controls what to do. For
example, the first host might elect itself as an initial master node
in a cluster.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.B ec2-metadata
will print all known metadata fields by default.  The following
options can be used to restrict the output to the selected fields.

.TP
.B \-\-all
Show all metadata information for this host (also default).
.TP
.B \-a/\-\-ami-id
The AMI ID used to launch this instance
.TP
.B \-l/\-\-ami-launch-index
The index of this instance in the reservation (per AMI).
.TP
.B \-m/\-\-ami-manifest-path
The manifest path of the AMI with which the instance was launched.
.TP
.B \-n/\-\-ancestor-ami-ids
The AMI IDs of any instances that were rebundled to create this AMI.
.TP
.B \-b/\-\-block-device-mapping
Defines native device names to use when exposing virtual devices.
.TP
.B \-i/\-\-instance-id
The ID of this instance
.TP
.B \-t/\-\-instance-type
The type of instance to launch. For more information, see Instance Types.
.TP
.B \-h/\-\-local-hostname
The local hostname of the instance.
.TP
.B \-o/\-\-local-ipv4
Public IP address if launched with direct addressing; private IP address if launched with public addressing.
.TP
.B \-k/\-\-kernel-id
The ID of the kernel launched with this instance, if applicable.
.TP
.B \-z/\-\-availability-zone
The availability zone in which the instance launched. Same as placement
.TP
.B \-R/\-\-region
The region in which the instance launched.
.TP
.B \-c/\-\-product-codes
Product codes associated with this instance.
.TP
.B \-p/\-\-public-hostname
The public hostname of the instance.
.TP
.B \-v/\-\-public-ipv4
NATted public IP Address
.TP
.B \-u/\-\-public-keys
Public keys. Only available if supplied at instance launch time
.TP
.B \-r/\-\-ramdisk-id
The ID of the RAM disk launched with this instance, if applicable.
.TP
.B \-e/\-\-reservation-id
ID of the reservation.
.TP
.B \-s/\-\-security-groups
Names of the security groups the instance is launched in. Only available if supplied at instance launch time
.TP
.B \-d/\-\-user-data
User-supplied data.Only available if supplied at instance launch time.
.TP
.B \-g/\-\-tags
Print EC2 resource tags if permitted in EC2 Instance Metadata Options.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Don't print metadata keys
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
.IP " 1." 4
Instance metadata and user data
.RS 4
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html
.RE
.IP " 2." 4
EC2 Instance Metadata Query Tool
.RS 4
https://aws.amazon.com/code/ec2-instance-metadata-query-tool/
.RE
.IP " 3." 4
Work with instance tags in instance metadata
.RS 4
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/Using_Tags.html#work-with-tags-in-IMDS
.RE

